"
    Professor Philip Cowley's high-profile research into the attitudes,
      motivations and voting behaviour of MPs has transformed press reporting
      and improved public understanding of their actions. Widely disseminated
      via social media, briefing notes and events, the research has become an
      on-going authoritative resource for journalists, MPs and lobbyists, and
      the findings have been covered by all major media outlets in the UK and
      beyond, reaching an audience of millions.
    Nick Robinson, the BBC's Political Editor, has described it as
        `academic political research doing exactly what it should do &#8212; helping
        to inform the public debate &#8212; and in real time not years after it
        matters'.[source 1]
    "
"
    Dr Jan-Hinrik Meyer-Sahling's research has developed new conceptual
      frameworks for the
      analysis of civil service reform in the post-communist world. His work has
      helped international
      policy-makers to understand the conditions under which interventions by
      international
      organisations are successful, and has influenced the strategy and
      operations of the European
      Commission and SIGMA-OECD.
    The research has been widely disseminated and used in international
      collaborations across
      Central and Eastern European and Western Balkan states and China, and to
      date has had the
      most wide-reaching and significant effect in Lithuania, where his policy
      recommendations were
      accepted and endorsed in the amendment of civil service regulations by the
      Lithuanian
      Government and Parliament.
    "
"
    Based on knowledge exchange with international agencies and think-tanks,
      briefings to politicians,
      workshops with local government and police authorities, and a full-time
      secondment within central
      (UK) government, Dr Matthew Goodwin's distinctive work has become a
      crucial part of changing
      attitudes and influencing policy for dealing with the rise of right-wing
      extremism in the UK, and
      elsewhere. As one of the most-followed political scientists in the UK,
      Goodwin has used extensive
      social and traditional media engagement to bring this ground-breaking work
      to the attention of the
      wider public. One senior Government Minister reflects that Goodwin has `helped
        to develop
        government policy to counter the far right', and `provided
        government with a substantial
        evidence base which continues to change and inform policy'.[source
      1]
    "
"
    Sustained research in the field of advanced survey design, advanced
      analysis of complex survey
      data and the study of public opinion has enabled Professor Cees van der
      Eijk to make a unique
        and vital contribution to the work of the Cabinet Office's Committee on
        Standards in Public
        Life (CSPL). As an independent public body that advises government
      on ethical standards across
      public life in the UK, CSPL has drawn upon Van der Eijk's methodological
      innovation in data
      analysis as well as his systematic research to inform its policy
      recommendations to government.
      These recommendations have helped to shape policy on matters of public
      probity, voter
      registration, MPs' expenses and political party finance. His research for
      the CSPL has also
      influenced other independent organisations and the wider public debate on
      integrity in public life.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham's Sue Ryder Care Centre for the Study of
      Supportive, Palliative and End of Life Care has enhanced the
      understanding, implementation and uptake of advance care planning for end
      of life care. Its work has shaped public policy and influenced national
      initiatives that have improved quality of life and reduced the number of
      deaths in hospitals. The research has been cited as an exemplar by the
      World Health Organisation and has helped inform policymaking at European
      level. It has guided professional practice, educated care staff and
      contributed to a more positive public attitude towards talking about end
      of life issues.
    "
"
    Research by the University of Nottingham has played a leading role in
      developing national, international and industry guidance on practical
      approaches to tackling the problem of psychosocial risks in the workplace.
      The European Commission, the World Health Organisation, the Health and
      Safety Executive, major global corporations and small and medium-sized
      businesses have supported and adopted the frameworks and recommendations
      resulting from this work. In the UK alone the guidance is estimated to
      have contributed to a saving of almost &#163;2bn over 10 years by helping to
      improve employees' health and so reducing the costs associated with
      work-related illness.
    "
"
    Research by the University of Nottingham's Division of Rehabilitation and
      Ageing has informed the effective implementation of evidence-based Early
      Supported Discharge (ESD) and community services for stroke survivors. The
      findings of an international consensus on the implementation of ESD have
      played a significant role in shaping local, regional, national and
      international service specifications. Qualitative and implementation
      studies have helped to shape better working practices between acute and
      community stroke services, including joint decision-making on who should
      be eligible for ESD and ensuring that services derive the full benefits of
      robust and relevant data capture.
    "
"
    Research by the University of Nottingham's Education and Technology for
      Health team has
      benefited healthcare students, professionals, users, carers and
      institutions both in the UK and
      internationally by establishing a participatory methodology for
      high-quality, sustainable multimedia
      Reusable Learning Objects (RLOs). These learning tools are now used in 50
      countries globally to
      facilitate individual access to knowledge, enhance learning within
      curriculums and deliver
      continuing professional development, with feedback showing satisfaction of
      up to 100% in some
      nations. They are also being used to train healthcare professionals in
      resource-poor countries,
      further strengthening the University of Nottingham's role as a global
      education provider.
    "
"
    University of Nottingham research in the field of recovery has had a
      major influence on changes in mental health policy. It has led to a new
      model of service provision both in the UK (including through NICE guidance
      and the NHS's outcomes framework) and internationally (including in
      Western Europe, Scandinavia, Canada, Australia and Asia). The work has
      contributed to a reduction in the use of mainstream services and has
      enhanced the quality of life enjoyed by people with mental health
      problems. It has also been central to the Department of Health's
      Implementing Recovery through Organisational Change programme, which has
      pioneered the use of Recovery Colleges and peer support workers in mental
      health care in the UK.
    "
"
    Research carried out by the Health Protection and Influenza Research
      Group (HPIRG), Division of Epidemiology and Public Health, impacted
      directly on the UK Government's response to the 2009 influenza pandemic,
      feeding directly into policy-making decisions. The group was appointed as
      an official WHO Collaborating Centre for pandemic influenza in 2010 and
      through its related research has ""reduced the economic impact on Member
      States for pandemic preparedness"" (quote from reference 7, section 5). In
      2011, it secured &#163;7M funding from the US Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention (CDC) to lead `once only' work to determine the modes of
      influenza transmission using a human challenge model.
    "
"
    Research, policy development, evaluation and advocacy work at The
      University of Nottingham has
      achieved significant impact in helping to prevent the harm to health
      caused by smoking, which is
      the largest avoidable cause of death and disability, and of social
      inequalities in health, in the UK.
      This impact has been achieved through contributions in two areas of
      prevention: (1) conventional
      population- and individual-level interventions to prevent smoking uptake
      and promote smoking
      cessation; and (2) novel population-level measures to encourage
      substitution of smoked tobacco
      with alternative, low hazard nicotine products as a harm reduction
      strategy.
    "
"
    QRISK is a new algorithm which predicts an individual's risk of
      cardiovascular over 10 years. It was developed using the QResearch
      database and is in routine use across the NHS. It is included in national
      guidelines from NICE and the Department of Health and in the GP quality
      and outcomes framework. It is incorporated into &gt; 90% of GP computer
      systems as well as pharmacy and secondary care systems. The web calculator
      has been used &gt;500,000 times worldwide. ClinRisk Ltd was incorporated
      in 2008 to develop software to ensure the reliable widespread
      implementation of the QRISK algorithm into clinical practice.
    "
"
    Our research has: i) increased public and professional knowledge and
      understanding of the
      prevalence, nature and causes of prescribing errors in general practices;
      ii) led the General
      Medical Council to recommend improvements to GP education and training;
      iii) led to the Royal
      College of General Practitioners to revise its curriculum to increase the
      emphasis on safe
      prescribing; iv) led one of the major GP computer system suppliers to make
      safety improvements;
      v) identified an IT-based intervention that is effective at reducing
      prescribing errors; vi) led to the
      roll-out of the intervention in over 800 general practices.
    "
"
    Research by the School of Pharmacy has underpinned the development of
      fluorescent ligand probes that have opened-up new pathways in drug
      discovery. These ligands have been commercialised through the formation of
      the spin-out company CellAura Technologies Ltd, and have been made
      globally available through a number of distributer agreements. Customers
      include pharmaceutical companies (e.g. Pfizer, AstraZeneca), drug
      discovery biotechs (e.g. Addex, Heptares) and drug discovery technology
      providers (e.g. CisBio). These ligands provide alternatives to the use of
      radio-ligands, giving more informative and safer solutions for industrial
      drug discovery. This has, for example, enabled: a new direction in G
      protein-coupled receptor research at Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd;
      validation of Promega Corporation's new drug-binding assay; and superior
      performance in the establishment of cell lines at inSCREENex GmbH.
    "
"
    Research by the School of Pharmacy has been used by the UK Government in
      their drive to improve the nation's public health. Our evidence base was
      used to inform the 2008 White Paper ""Pharmacy in England: Building on
      Strengths &#8212; Delivering the Future"". Healthy Living Pharmacies, recommended
      by the White Paper, have been piloted leading to improved engagement with
      local commissioners, further training for pharmacy staff, more
      cost-effective delivery of public health services, and an increase in
      public awareness and access to these services. In addition, the Government
      backed Pharmacy and Public Health Forum is utilising our research in its
      remit to develop, implement and evaluate public health practice in
      pharmacy.
    "
"
    Research by the School of Pharmacy played a key role in the 2008
      regulatory approval of Janssen Pharmaceutica's HIV drug Intelence&#174;.
      As a poorly soluble drug, Intelence&#174; required specialist
      formulation and was the first formulation of its type to be approved by
      the FDA and EMA. Intelence&#174; offers significantly improved
      clinical outcomes due to its efficacy in patients with HIV resistance.
      Global Intelence&#174; sales in 2012 were $349M, with additional
      not-for-profit supplies to resource-limited countries. As a result of this
      landmark regulatory approval formulation development strategies at Janssen
      were adapted enabling a further poorly soluble drug to reach the market.
      Telaprevir, a second-generation Hepatitis C treatment (marketed as Incivek&#174;,
      Incivo&#174; &amp; Telavic&#174;), gained global regulatory
      approval in 2011. 2012 sales exceeded $1bn in the US alone.
    "
"
    Research conducted by the Accident Research Unit (ARU) at the University
      of Nottingham since
      1988 has influenced decision-making processes for government road safety
      executives across the
      globe. A series of studies commissioned by the Department for Transport
      (DfT), in addition to
      independent research, fed into research policy-making documentation,
      helping to frame national
      and international government policy on road safety in the UK, Europe,
      America, and Australasia.
      The work has informed publicity materials for professionals and the public
      with a particular focus
      on collisions involving young drivers, motorcycle safety, work-related
      traffic collisions and
      distractibility due to roadside advertising.
    "
"
    Reduction of unpleasant ambient noise during MRI has been enabled through
      innovative engineering solutions developed at the Medical Research Council
      Institute of Hearing Research (MRC IHR). Intellectual property was
      licensed to Optoacoustics Ltd and the resulting OptoActive&#8482; active
      noise-cancelling headphones for MRI are the only one of their type
      commercially available, enabling free conversation between patients and
      clinicians. The product was formally launched in September 2012 and has
      worldwide sales including in the USA, Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
    "
"
    Work on better management and identification of Medically Unexplained
      Symptoms (MUS) has led
      to the introduction of new treatments in primary care in England through
      the Improving Access to
      Psychological Treatment (IAPT) programme as well as having an impact on
      service planning and
      commissioning. These approaches have also been implemented into the
      routine training and
      practice of General Practitioners (GPs) in parts of Europe. A clinical and
      economic evaluation of a
      psychosocial approach to chronic fatigue syndrome using general nurses and
      development of a
      cognitive behaviour therapy approach has changed general practice and
      enhanced the patient
      experience for those with MUS.
    "
"
    The Cochrane Schizophrenia Systematic Review Group (CSzG) at the
      University of Nottingham provided a knowledge platform upon which to
      develop a novel Systematic Review Solutions company in China (SRS),
      creating a new market in training of evidence-based medicine for
      healthcare professionals, researchers and clinicians across China. Since
      inception in 2009, SRS has generated income, created jobs, expanded to new
      cities, improved knowledge of evidence-based healthcare, changed
      prescribing practices and gained the support of Chinese Universities and
      hospitals including the United Family Healthcare Group, China's largest
      private hospital.
    "
"
    Summer Scientist Week (www.summerscientist.org)
      is an innovative public engagement event held at the University of
      Nottingham that increases public understanding of the psychology of child
      development. Families with children aged from 4 to 11 years experience the
      research process first-hand by participating in ongoing studies. Research
      findings and their impact are disseminated through posters at the event
      and follow-up newsletters. Summer Scientist Week (SSW) has increased
      public understanding of psychology research within the community and has
      increased interest in psychology and child development topics in the media
      and has increased attendance at other science and research-based events.
    "
"
    Research at Nottingham, reviewing and evaluating best practice for care
      of stroke patients since
      1993, has influenced clinical practice by contributing to key national
      clinical guidelines. Additionally,
      research at Nottingham has developed and validated existing stroke
      assessments with new
      publications encouraging the uptake of these assessments globally in
      Europe, North America,
      China and Japan. Finally, Nottingham researchers have achieved impact
      within the stroke
      community by working directly with patients to develop care pathways and
      building networks of
      clinicians, occupational psychologists, clinical psychologists and
      patients to ensure research
      translates effectively into real-world practice.
    "
"
    The Mixed Reality Laboratory (MRL) has collaborated with the artists
      Blast Theory to transform UK theatre and drive innovation in games and
      television. The underlying research was published as a series of papers in
      ACM Transactions on CHI and at the ACM's CHI conference between 2003 and
      2012, with two CHI papers winning best paper awards. By creating and
      touring a series of innovative and technically advanced performances, we
      have enriched cultural life and influenced a rising generation of UK
      artists. By then jointly collaborating with companies such as Microsoft,
      Sony, Nokia and the BBC, we have innovated new games and television
      formats. Evidence of this impact is to be found in: performances touring
      to 40 venues in 18 countries to be experienced by over 200,000 people; 160
      reviews in international press; artistic and industry awards; direct
      involvement of industry partners in follow-on commercial projects; and
      consultancy.
    "
"
    Research at the Mixed Reality Laboratory (MRL) into using wearable
      biosensors to capture and broadcast the experience of riding
      rollercoasters has driven innovation in how to create, film and broadcast
      thrilling experiences that has impacted on television, advertising and
      public engagement. The underlying research received three best paper
      awards at the ACM's CHI conference and featured as the cover article of
      Communications of the ACM. Through consultancies for the BBC, Lionsgate,
      Merlin and TBWA, we have used our techniques and platforms to create
      numerous television features and online films. Collaborations with TV
      producer RDF, supported by the Technology Strategy Board, have produced
      pilots of new television shows. The resulting television broadcasts,
      enhanced with participation at science festivals, have also engaged many
      millions of members of the public worldwide with the research into
      biosensing.
    "
"
    Alan Sommerstein's research on the comedies of Aristophanes, published in
      the form of authoritative translations, together with articles and book
      chapters on Aristophanes, have
    
      enabled large numbers of readers (including new audiences
          with little prior knowledge of ancient drama) to appreciate better
        both the comic and social/political aspects of the plays
      helped theatre directors and performers to adapt the plays for
        productions which brought out for audiences how ""accessible,
        funny and relevant"" they could be
      assisted the National Theatre to create a rounded presentation
        of Greek theatre for a wide-ranging online audience

      enabled schools and colleges to teach and study Aristophanes
        in versions that combine scholarship and approachability
      increasingly informed the content of university courses in Greek
          comedy and enriched students' learning experience.
    
    "
"
    Revision of standard views of Sparta towards a less exceptional, more
      civic-oriented, society has:
    
       transformed curricula, teaching and student learning on Sparta in
        HEIs worldwide
       enriched teaching and inspired pupils' educational ambitions in UK
        schools and FE colleges
       altered the modern Municipality of Sparti's depiction of its ancient
        legacy and enhanced its cultural heritage policies
       helped a comics author respond to 300 with a more authentic
        depiction of Spartan-helot relations
       enabled a U.S. gun control activist to counteract Sparta's
        appropriation by the pro-gun lobby.
    
    "
"
    Research carried out by the University of Nottingham has significantly
      informed international policies designed to transform technical and
      vocational education and training (TVET) and its role in development. This
      has been achieved through direct contribution to policy making at global,
      regional and national levels, most notably for UNESCO, the Southern
      African Development Community and the South African government. This has
      led to the revision of global, regional and national policy guidelines and
      the development of new regional and national indicators. Conventional
      policy wisdoms have been questioned at global and national levels and new
      concepts introduced into the policy debate.
    "
"
    A sustained and substantial research programme on teacher's lives and
      careers has influenced policy development, informed communities of
      practice and shaped leadership training materials and programmes. The work
      provides new insights into the complexity of teacher development which has
      been taken up widely around the world and used extensively by government
      policy makers and school leaders in the assessment of professional
      competencies and targeting of support to improve performance and enhance
      retention in the profession.
    "
"
    A design research programme in mathematics education by The University of
      Nottingham has been taken up by two powerful US change agents &#8212; the Bill
      and Melinda Gates Foundation and the National Council of Supervisors of
      Mathematics &#8212; as a key element in their strategies to improve the quality
      of teaching and learning in secondary mathematics classrooms across the
      US.
	Beginning with small-scale design research on diagnostic teaching in
      mathematics, effective principles for the design of lessons were developed
      to enable teachers to adapt to students' learning needs. These principles
      were then engineered into robust products and processes through
      systematic, closely observed classroom trials.
    "
"
    The Centre for Decision Research and Experimental Economics (CeDEx)
      at Nottingham is a world leader in the development and application of
      experimental and behavioural economics. CeDEx's research is
      increasingly influential in affecting the way in which experimental
      methodology is utilised by public sector agencies (e.g. Department for
        Environment, Food &amp; Rural Affairs, DEFRA) and in fashioning the
      public and policy makers' understanding of how human motivations and
      decision processes affect individual and group behaviour and, in
      particular, their responses to different policy tools (e.g. incentives,
      regulation, information, `nudges' etc). The research of the CeDEx
      group has had broad and diffuse impacts on public decision-making and
      public debate; through public events, the provision of advice to
      government departments and regulators, the delivery of training workshops,
      commissioned research and an active strategy of engagement in public
      debate.
    "
"
    The new research reported on in this case study on the determinants of
      household indebtedness and dynamics of household finances has informed
      government policy decisions, aided monetary policymakers and benefited the
      third sector. Work on measurement and analysis of over- indebtedness was
      used by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS)
      to create new criteria for `over-indebtedness', monitor its development
      over time and model the Financial Services Authority (FSA)
      funding levy for free-to-client money advice services. Insights on how
      house prices affect consumption influenced the Bank of England in
      revising its understanding of the `collateral channel' of house price
      movements in its Quarterly Model. Through serving as an expert witness to
      a House of Commons Select Committee Inquiry into `Debt Management'
      the researchers challenged existing policy measures prompting policy
      response. The authors also disseminated research findings through a series
      of non-technical reports and applied projects which have been used to
      inform indebtedness policy by a broad constituency of free-to-client money
      advice providers.
    "
"
    Research by the School's Centre for Finance, Credit and
        Macroeconomics (CFCM) on the monetary transmission mechanism has
      been influential in improving the design, implementation and effectiveness
      of the monetary policies of a number of central banks, including the Bank
        of England, Banque de France and the European Central Bank.
      The research has influenced changes in the way that official monetary
      aggregates are measured so as to capture the impact of non-bank financial
      institutions on the money supply and credit availability, and in better
      understanding of how monetary policy affects different interest rates.
      This in turn has allowed for improved control by central banks of their
      policy targets, and for better understanding of the effects of their
      monetary policies on economic activity and inflation.
    "
"
    Research by the School's Centre for Research on Economic Development
        and International Trade (CREDIT) on the relative importance
      of trade policy and non-trade policy barriers (especially high transport
      costs) in determining international trade costs and export performance in
      Africa has directly influenced the design of the national trade policies
      of Uganda and Kenya. It has also contributed to shaping
      changes in the policy guidance given by agencies such as the UK's Department
        for International Development (DFID), the African
        Development Bank and Commonwealth Secretariat about the need
      for developing countries to use appropriate, complementary non-trade
      policies to improve the effectiveness of trade reforms and policies in
      developing countries (in particular in Africa). Specifically, the
      research has contributed to a body of evidence about the need to increase
      the emphasis given to trade facilitation and transport infrastructure in
      African trade policy reforms, which has in turn informed trade policy
      design and implementation in a number of African countries.
    "
"
    Research within the School's Centre for Research on Globalisation and
        Economic Policy
        (GEP) on the characteristics of UK exporting and
      non-exporting firms has been used by the UK's
      trade promotion agencies, UK Trade and Investment (UKTI) and the Department
        of Business,
        Innovation and Skills (BIS) to improve the design and effectiveness
      of the firm-specific policies
      they use to increase export performance.
    The research has been used to provide an evidence base against which to
      judge the rationale for
      and effectiveness of export promotion and to develop new schemes. The
      research has led to a
      better understanding of the different types of barriers to exporting faced
      by different types of UK
      firms, and the role of previous export experience in lowering these
      barriers. This evidence base
      has both informed the design of the UK's export policy and has helped to
      fashion a specific, new
      trade promotion scheme (Gateways to Global Growth) launched by the
      UK in 2009.
    "
"
    Publication of the first major piece of research on young adult carers
      [YACs] has led to recognition of a `new' group of carers in policy
      and practice, and the development of two new psychometric instruments.
    Raising awareness with Government, policy makers and service providers,
      has resulted in the provision of new services and support and further
        education provision for YACs across the UK, and the psychometric
        tools are now being used extensively by organisations including
      Comic Relief, The Government Innovation Fund, the BBC, and in a dozen
      countries.
    "
"
    A body of work from researchers in the Health, Social Care and Well-being
      Centre (HSCWBC) in the School, on the safety and well-being of vulnerable
      children and adults, has directly shaped three sets of policy and practice
      guidelines &#8212; from the Department of Education, the Department of Health
      and the Home Office. The research has been used as an evidence base to
      underpin the guidance required by health and social care practitioners.
      Such guidance contributes to frameworks for practice and as such are key
      to the role and function of these practitioners.
    "
"
    O'Connell Davidson's pioneering research delivered the first systematic
      study of the demand for prostitution and domestic work and contested
      mainstream policy responses to human trafficking, childhood and migration.
    Through adoption by international agencies, citation by leading global
      organisations, speeches at international conferences and via media debate,
      the research findings have been influential in informing UK legislation,
      redefining the focus of international policy on human trafficking and
      encouraging children's NGOs to adopt new approaches to child migration and
      trafficking.
    "
"
    The findings of an innovative ethnographic study of Health Care
      Assistants (HCAs) who care for dementia patients were used to create a
      stage play, Inside out of Mind,which was performed to
      audiences of HCAs, NHS managers and the general public.
    The performances raised awareness with NHS managers and healthcare policy
      makers, of the role and importance of HCAs; their working environment, the
      skills they need and the difficulties they encounter. It enabled HCAs to
      reflect upon their practice and to identify specific areas upon which they
      would focus to improve care.
    "
"
    Research at the University of Nottingham on the costs of civil litigation
      has informed policy-makers and influenced the development of policy
      measures to control costs. As an advisor in the Jackson Review of Civil
      Litigation, Professor Paul Fenn assisted the development of the
      far-reaching reforms in the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of
      Offenders Act 2012 and informed changes to the Civil Procedure Rules which
      were introduced in April 2013. Based on the formulae calculated by Fenn,
      changes to the fixed recoverable costs in personal injury claims now
      benefit many clients and policy holders as recipients of lower fees and/or
      premiums.
    "
"
    Research at the University of Nottingham has augmented the aspirations
      and entrepreneurial capabilities of academic researchers through
      participation in the Biotechnology Young Entrepreneurs Scheme (YES)
      business plan competition.
    The content and pedagogy of the competition are built upon research
      pioneered by the University of Nottingham Institute for Enterprise and
      Innovation (UNIEI), delivered together with research councils and
      industry. Since 2008, more than 2,000 researchers have participated in the
      scheme and an independent evaluation demonstrated that it has enhanced
      their entrepreneurial skills, augmented their career aspirations and
      increased their engagement in the process of commercialising academic
      research.
    "
"
    All too many IT projects fail, as many as 80%. To improve systems design
      in the public sector, Wastell has undertaken a sustained programme of
      action research, the main fruit being a design and innovation methodology,
      known as SPRINT. Its deployment has generated impressive benefits, e.g. a
      recent project produced an innovative set of tools for improving
      safeguarding in healthcare. Wastell's research has also highlighted the
      dysfunctions of the Integrated Children's System (ICS), a national IT
      initiative in social care. The research directly influenced the redesign
      of the ICS, feeding into the Munro Review of Child Protection, and has
      guided subsequent design work on IT for social care.
    "
"
    Research undertaken by Starkey and colleagues has informed the
      development of a particular philosophy and practice of research. This has
      informed policy debates about the nature of effective management research
      for engaging with practice &#8212; now widely referred to as co-production &#8212; and
      led to new insights into the practice of policymaking in government. The
      research informed (1) the development of a new approach to policymaking
      adopted by the previous administration in work conducted for and with the
      Cabinet Office with senior civil servants and representation from the
      House of Lords; (2) collaborative work on the development of low carbon
      communities which was conducted with the Department of The Environment and
      Climate Change.
    "
"
    A body of research undertaken by McCabe in partnership with a Charity,
      the Family Holiday Association, has informed the development of policy and
      practice and raised awareness of issues concerning the inclusion of
      disadvantaged people in leisure travel. The research informed policy
      debate in an all-party parliamentary report and subsequently, Visit
      England's domestic tourism strategy. The work led to changes in the
      charity's practices, leading to new systems, services and underpinned a
      fundraising campaign. The research ultimately enhanced the Charity's
      capacity to influence and develop productive partnerships with UK and
      European policy makers.
    "
"
    Sustained research on managerial labour markets and pay determination has
      informed and influenced key policy-makers in determining rewards and
      remuneration for senior medical professionals. As an expert `economist'
      member of the Doctors' and Dentists' Review Body (DDRB), Professor Steve
      Thompson has contributed to recommendations that have been endorsed by the
      UK Government and are used as an evidence base for negotiations between
      the British Medical Association, the Department of Health and devolved
      administrations within the UK.
    "
"
    The body of research on responsible and sustainable business education
      has shaped the policies
      of key institutions working in the area of responsible business education,
      notably the Academy of
      Business in Society (ABIS) and the UN Principles for Responsible
      Management Education (UN
      PRME). It has also contributed to the guidance that UK higher education
      bodies give to Business
      Schools through the Higher Education Academy. ICCSR's research has also
      made available
      guidance and examples of best practice to these policy institutions
      through which business schools
      have been able to access evidence-based resources in their endeavour to
      develop effective
      practice.
    "
"
    Research by David Paton and Sourafel Girma has raised awareness, informed
      critical public debate and affected policy decisions in the area of
      adolescent sexual health on a national and international level. The Irish
      Law Reform Commission, Local Authorities, a Parliamentary Enquiry and
      non-governmental organisations such as the Family Educational Trust have
      used key research insights to inform policy and practice including the
      withdrawal in Ireland of a proposal on the provision of contraception to
      minors. The research has been used extensively by policy makers,
      commentators and the media to debate which interventions are most
      effective at reducing teenage pregnancy rates in many countries including
      the UK, Ireland and the USA.
    "
"
    A body of research has informed government bodies, policy makers and
      other agencies on consumer interactions with retail financial services
      markets. Specifically, it has informed formulation of new policies in the
      area of simple products and banking standards that are now being put into
      effect as new policy initiatives.
    The impact detailed here has been on policy development and
      implementation in the area of consumers and financial services. The body
      of academic research has gained traction and credibility with relevant
      stakeholders due to academic endorsement and wide scale dissemination
      efforts. This has allowed researchers a significant input into
      consultation processes, campaigns and a parliamentary commission. Such
      inputs have helped formulation of new policies in the area of simple
      products and banking standards that are now being operationalized as new
      policy initiatives. Thus, a direct chain of impact exists between the
      initial research and the final outcomes, which influences numerous
      financial services decision makers and banking customers.
    "
"
    The Centre for Management Buyout Research (CMBOR) pioneered a unique live
      platform that has informed and influenced the work of UK, European and
      International government agencies, industry, policy makers, practitioners
      and researchers. For the first time, CMBOR provided systematic research
      evidence on private-equity buyouts which is an area that is often
      misunderstood among policy makers and the wider public. The provision of
      extensive data on over 30,000 European private equity buy-out transactions
      and quarterly reports / analyses on buy-out activity has served to enhance
      government, industry and the wider public's understanding and inform the
      development of policies and practice on a strategic and operational level
      in the UK, Europe and US.
    "
"
    Thorne's research for the Flood Foresight project changed UK policy
      towards sustainable Integrated Flood Risk Management (IFRM), as
      implemented by the Floods and Water Management Act (2010). This
      legislation introduced new systems of governance to clarify
      responsibilities, support co-ordinated actions, strengthen the roles of
      local stakeholders, foster the co-production of knowledge, and work with
      natural processes. Flood Foresight has attracted international attention
      and stimulated projects and policy changes elsewhere, including in the
      Taihu Basin in China and around the city of Gold Coast in Queensland,
      Australia.
    "
"
    The ecosystem approach has been advocated as a way of moving
      consideration of biodiversity and the environment closer to the centre of
      decision-making. A conceptual `cascade model', developed by Haines-Young
      and Potschin, has successfully overcome the challenge of the ecosystem
      approach by showing how it can be used in practice. The cascade model
      forms the basis of the Common International Classification of Ecosystem
      Services (CICES), recently introduced by the European Environment Agency
      (EEA), and has changed how UK and European policy-makers define the
      relationship between nature and the economy.
    "
"
    A comparative methodology to assess the impact of climate change in
      different countries, implemented by Gosling for a report commissioned by
      the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC), informed EU
      negotiations at the 2011 UN climate change conference in Durban, South
      Africa. The conference concluded with the Durban Platform for Enhanced
      Action - a `road map' by which global legal agreement on climate change is
      to be implemented no later than 2015. For the first time, government
      ministers and their advisers attending an international conference were
      able to compare the impact of climate change in different countries,
      including those where scientific institutions have limited research
      capacity.
    "
"
    Leyshon and French's research on the geography of UK bank and building
      society branch closures influenced the decision by the Financial Inclusion
      Taskforce to target 25 under-served local authority areas for additional
      support from the government's &#163;42m Growth Fund between 2008 and 2011. The
      Growth Fund, which is targeted at Credit Unions, Community Development
      Financial Institutions and other, not-for-profit `third sector' lenders,
      enables financially excluded households to access credit on more
      affordable terms.
    "
"
    Research by Daniels for Picturing Britain, an exhibition about
      the life and works of the pre-eminent
      Nottingham-born landscape artist Paul Sandby (1731-1809), shaped the
      policy and practice of
      Nottingham Castle Museum and Art Gallery (NCMAG). While NCMAG
      previously imported
      exhibitions of international standing produced elsewhere, Picturing
        Britain reversed this
      relationship. This exhibition, conceived in Nottingham and based partly on
      works held at NCMAG,
      was exported to two internationally important venues, strengthening the
      city's national and
      international cultural reputation. Inspired by the success of Picturing
        Britain, NCMAG re-assessed
      its permanent collection with a view to securing Arts Council recognition
      and is currently
      investigating other `home-grown' touring exhibitions.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham (UoN) has been at the forefront of research
      into intramammary infections during the non-lactating (dry) period in
      dairy herds. This research, disseminated through presentations to key
      stakeholders and veterinary textbooks, has changed clinical and farmer
      practices as evidenced by international disease/welfare reports, national
      control programmes and increased use of non-antibiotic teat sealants. The
      work has culminated in the launch of a novel software tool that uses the
      research findings to provide a farm-specific decision aid, which benefits
      the business activities of dairy farmers and improves animal health and
      welfare.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham (UoN) has transferred an understanding of
      how starchy foods are modified by processing, attained through working
      with human foods, to the animal feed industry. The knowledge developed at
      UoN and further advanced by co-operative programmes with industrial
      partners, has enabled animal feed manufacturers to reformulate and modify
      their production procedures to optimise manufacturing operations, increase
      profitability and the nutritional quality of the feeds.
    "
"
    Research at the University of Nottingham (UoN) has had influence on
      development of health policy in the UK and internationally. It is
      recognised that the risk of diseases related to obesity and insulin
      resistance, is partly determined by the nutritional environment
      experienced during early life. Against a background of scepticism
      researchers at the UoN have generated data that has been critical in
      demonstrating the biological plausibility of such associations. This has
      influenced expert panels and non-governmental organisations in framing
      their current recommendations for nutrition in pregnancy and infancy,
      which benefit women and children worldwide.
    "
"
    University of Nottingham (UoN) research into optimum plant populations
      and lodging in wheat has led to advances in agronomic practices for winter
      wheat in the UK, in particular changes in the way that seed rates are
      calculated (by number, rather than weight) to establish optimum plant
      populations. Most significantly, growers and agronomists now have an
      improved understanding of the crop characteristics that affect wheat
      lodging risk and have made changes to crop management to minimise the
      problem. This has led to reduced incidence of lodging in the UK, thereby
      protecting yield and quality of UK's most important arable crop.
    "
"
    Research from the University Nottingham (UoN) has identified the
      importance of agricultural business management in improving business
      performance. UoN-led work enhanced the on-line Farm Business Survey (SBS)
      Business Benchmarking service, supported by bespoke knowledge transfer and
      exchange activities. Analysis from the 2011/12 FBS shows that 15% of
      farmers ""frequently benchmark at whole farm level"" achieving an average
      Farm Business Income (FBI) of &#163;128,900 in contrast to &#163;63,000 for the 85%
      of farmers that do not benchmark. FBS Farm Business Benchmarking is the
      only free-to-use, non-data commitment, service that offers both national
      and international benchmarking options to the agricultural industry.
    "
"
    Diseases of plants impact upon global food production and the
      environment, necessitating careful control. University of Nottingham (UoN)
      research has contributed to new lab-based and in-field tests that are
      extensively used by plant health inspectors and overseas organisations.
      The research has produced validated, accurate pathogen detection systems
      for use by plant health inspectorates and quarantine services as part of
      their testing services. The methods have been adopted by the Food and
      Environment Research Agency (Fera) in the UK for routine testing, and also
      by the Swiss diagnostics company Bioreba as part of their diagnostic
      services.
    "
"
    Fertility of dairy cows has been in decline since the 1970's and this has
      threatened sustainability of the dairy industry worldwide. Research led by
      Nottingham University (UoN) identified key drivers of fertility and
      provided genetic and nutritional tools for the industry, to help combat
      the decline. The genetic tool was the UK Fertility Index, which is used
      universally by breeders for national and international bull selection. The
      nutritional tool, which is widely applied by international feed companies,
      used the concept that nutritional manipulation of insulin enhances
      fertility. Evidence shows that use of these tools between 2008 and 2013
      has reversed the decline, and fertility is being restored. This has
      brought commercial benefits for breeding companies, cattle food producers
      and farmers and had a positive impact upon animal welfare.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham (UoN) has developed two novel food-allowed
      additives based upon xanthan gum. The generation of these structurally
      modified forms allow xanthan to be used more efficiently in food
      manufacturing applications and provide nutritional and health benefits.
      The invention of the new xanthans benefits the global food industry by
      facilitating new product development and formulation.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham (UoN) led research that resulted in the
      design, evaluation and
      national implementation of a new approach to mastitis control on British
      dairy farms; the `DairyCo
      Mastitis Control Plan'. The programme, which commenced in 2009, was
      implemented on farms
      holding 10-15% of all British dairy cows. The uptake of the scheme is
      continually increasing and
      has generated savings to the British dairy industry to the order of &#163;5-10M
      per annum.
    "
"
    The use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for their
      pain-relieving properties in
      cattle medicine has lagged behind that of other species (e.g. companion
      animals) where analgesic
      use is now routine. University of Nottingham (UoN) research exploring the
      attitudes of vets and
      farmers to the use of NSAIDs in cattle, and subsequent marketing by
      Boehringer Ingelheim, a
      multinational pharmaceutical company, has led to a substantial increase in
      analgesic use. UoN
      research increased sales for Boehringer Ingelheim and almost doubled the
      UK market value of
      NSAIDs for use in cattle. With administration of up to 2 million
      additional doses per year, the
      research had clear benefits for animal welfare.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham's international expertise and reputation in
      sensory science research has improved the skill-base of industry through
      targeted training courses. The courses were developed after a need for
      structured sensory training was identified within the UK food industry.
      Uptake for the training is excellent and demand for such training
      continues with sensory modules featuring as a popular component of the
      UoN-Cranfield-Harper Adams-Rothamsted BBSRC Agrifood Training Partnership
      (AATP). The food industry benefits from the transfer of research-based
      skills, delivered with a level of flexibility that meets the needs of
      businesses.
    "
"
    Research at the University of Nottingham (UoN) has generated a deep
      understanding of how semi-crystalline biopolymers, particularly starches
      and cellulosics, can be controlled through processing to create products
      with predictable behaviour and with enhanced functionality, especially for
      texture creation. This knowledge has been transferred to the food industry
      and to other manufacturers who use natural materials. Concepts developed
      by UoN have become the bedrock of understanding for large and small
      manufacturers, enabling them to reduce waste, adapt recipes allowing for
      cleaner labels and additive reduction, expand the range and quality of
      materials they can utilise and attempt novel manufacturing procedures.
    "
"
    The Caistor Roman Town Project has transformed understanding of one of
      East Anglia's most significant archaeological sites and has informed the
      management strategies of the site's principal stakeholders (South Norfolk
      Council, Norfolk County Council, Norfolk Museums Service and the Norfolk
      Archaeological Trust) in relation to presentation and interpretation. The
      project epitomises `citizen science', engendering sustained community
      involvement in archaeological research (c. 230 volunteers
      contributing over 35,000 hours), including the establishment of a charity
      that has enabled the volunteers to develop and support further community
      archaeology initiatives in the region. More than 15,000 visitors to
      excavations over 12 weeks and widespread coverage through internet, print
      news and television have broadened international understanding of
      archaeology and the site.
    "
"
    Research at the submerged town of Pavlopetri in Greece has stimulated
      improved management and conservation of a key site of marine cultural
      heritage. It helped to forge a new policy against uncontrolled
      industrialisation of the Vatika bay, reducing potential environmental
      damage, and has informed the development of national governmental policy
      on the protection and presentation of submerged sites in Greece.
    Utilising pioneering technological advancements in underwater scanning
      and improved visualisation processes, the research also helped an offshore
      engineering company to improve its product development and changed the way
      archaeologists and the public visualise, interpret and understand marine
      cultural heritage.
    Through an internationally successful documentary (viewed by
      approximately 15 million people) that used state-of-the-art CGI
      technology, public awareness and policy engagement with underwater
      archaeology (and the environmental issues related to its preservation)
      have been enhanced and, locally, Vatika and the Laconia region have seen
      increased tourism and transformed community involvement.
    "
"
    Currie's research into the role and nature of narrative and character
      has brought about a range
        of significant benefits in the fields of healthcare, education
      and public debate.
    
      Physicians working with mental health patients rely on Currie's work
        to support a specific
        treatment programme
      Training for more than 300 medical practitioners has been delivered,
        developed from materials
        in Currie's research
      Children's confidence and attainment levels have been improved
      Public debate has been stimulated
      Schools have changed their curricula to teach some of the research
      findings
    
    "
"
    Mumford and Tallant engaged in consultancy work for IT
      companies, with both interactions leading to substantial positive benefits
      for commercial partners. Though `early stage impacts', each consultancy
      has generated both commercial value and a change in software design of a
      key product.
    Through Mumford's consultancy, research led to significant
      changes to the development of a database tool developed by a national IT
      company, FACE Recording and Measurement Systems. This, in turn,
      has led to a patent application. FACE recently received an offer
      of $5m (US) for a product based upon the tool.
    Through Tallant's consultancy, research led to important changes
      to the development of an online calendar/event planner tool, developed by
      a Canadian software company&#8212;Time.ly. It also led to Time.ly
      being able to engage a wider audience. The financial value of such a
      company depends upon the number of users they can engage. Time.ly
      were recently valued at $8.4m (CAN).
    Between them, Mumford and Tallant have made significant contributions
        to companies or products valued at over &#163;8m.
    "
"
    Research on ecclesiology undertaken by Revd Dr Alison Milbank:
    
      Has informed the theology, policy and practice of mission in the
        Church of England by
        challenging the theological basis of the dominant Fresh Expressions
        movement and offering a
        new model based on mediation;
      Has engaged cathedral visitors and church members in new ways of
        experiencing religious
        objects via video and barcodes;
      Has informed and influenced curricula and syllabi in Anglican
        ordination training on mission
        and ecclesiology.
      Has exceeded its target audience of the Church of England, being
        discussed by other churches
        in the UK and worldwide.
    
    "
"
    Professor John Milbank's research at the University of Nottingham has:
    
      Influenced policy formation, as a crucial inspiration for the new
        `postliberal' politics of Blue Labour and Red Toryism in the United
        Kingdom;
      Influenced the theological discourse of Anglican and Catholic churches
        here and abroad;
      Contributed to changes in theological education through becoming an
        object of study in theological curricula as well as an object of debate
        among other disciplines such as political and social theory.
    
    "
"
    The public debate on the conflict between creation and evolution has been
      changed by Conor Cunningham's research:
    
      Dissemination and promotion of Cunningham's writings by the Archbishop
        of Canterbury within the Church of England contributed to new ways of
        thinking in the church.
      Reviews of his book in a wide range of non-academic journals and
        blogs, together with the writing, presenting and broadcasting of a BBC
        documentary (with over a million viewers and subsequent syndication to
        Australia, Canada, and New Zealand) contributed to narrowing the gap
        between academic and public discourse.
      Subsequent public debates at Lambeth Palace and elsewhere have
        contributed to a deeper public understanding of the relation between
        science and religion.
      Talks and an online seminar given to church leaders and groups
        together with reviews of the book from secular scientific communities
        have created new dialogue between these two groups.
    
    "
"
    Nicholas Alfrey's work has led to a reassessment of modern British art of
      the 1960s and 1970s
      concerned with landscape and the environment. This has been achieved
      through his curatorship of
      exhibitions at the Djanogly Art Gallery, Nottingham (2009) and at
      Southampton Art Gallery, the
      latter under the aegis of Arts Council England (2013), and their
      subsequent press reception. Alfrey
      has selected work for these exhibitions by leading British artists never
      before displayed and he has
      therefore increased the visibility of this material. Through his
      activities, the dominance of American
      Land Art has been questioned. In a related strand of activity, Alfrey's
      Land Art Network, funded by
      the AHRC, has initiated a dialogue between different generations of
      contemporary artists and
      created new networks and interaction between art historians, museum and
      gallery curators, artists
      and writers. The careers of individual artists, notably Katie Paterson,
      have been transformed by
      their participation in the Network. The institutions concerned have
      thereby invested and promoted
      Land Art as part of their exhibition strategy, which has been linked to
      Arts Council England's
      historic promotion of British Land Art and the more recent revival of
      Southampton Art Gallery.
    "
"
    Professor Alex Danchev's research on the relationship between art,
      artists and politics has
      underpinned material changes to curatorial approach and practice at the
      Imperial War Museum,
      contributed to the planning of exhibitions at the National Gallery and the
      National Portrait Gallery,
      London, and has added depth to museums' and galleries' public programmes.
      It has stimulated
      new thought and practice amongst artists and writers, and has generated
      wider public debate
      about art, artists and politics. It has enriched the cultural debate by
      engaging thinkers, writers,
      broadcasters, practitioners, curators and educators, and the diverse
      publics with whom they
      engage.
    "
"
    This case study describes the impact of Professor Mervyn Cooke's research
      on the music of Benjamin Britten. A six-volume edition of Britten's
      correspondence, new performance editions, public talks, and programme
      notes for concerts and CDs has enhanced the understanding of Britten's
      music amongst a wide general audience, contributed to the educational and
      outreach remit of performance organisations, and stimulated creative
      output in the form of performances, recordings, and popular biographies.
    "
"
    This case study describes the impact of an AHRC-funded project examining
      the `St Emmeram Codex', a key source of early fifteenth-century European
      polyphony. Amongst the principal impacts of this research have been: (a)
      exposure of high-quality yet largely unknown repertoire for performers of
      late medieval music; (b) new insights into performance practice, enhanced
      prestige, and new performance opportunities for one of the project's
      collaborators, the German vocal group Stimmwerck; (c) increasing audience
      reach and understanding for this repertoire, through a series of concerts
      around Europe, over a period of six years; (d) creation of a highly
      distinctive and attractive offering for concert venues and a commercial CD
      company.
    "
"
    Dr Paul Grainge (Associate Professor of Film and Television Studies,
      Nottingham, 2001-present) and Dr Catherine Johnson (Associate Professor of
      Film and Television Studies, Nottingham, 2010-present) have been
      pioneering the study of the promotional screen industries, raising the
      status of a vibrant sub-sector of the global creative industries. Through
      engagement with key media practitioners, they have:
    
      generated new ways of thinking about the role of promotion that have
        influenced the BBC's use of online content
      helped the UK's leading broadcast design company Red Bee Media (with a
        global client base including the BBC, UKTV, Virgin Media, CCTV and
        Discovery International) to develop strategic business planning in TV
        and digital promotion
      increased public understanding of the art and heritage of screen
        promotion through public events that have raised the visibility of the
        creative and professional discipline of promotional design
      informed educational content planning at the British Film Institute.
    
    "
"
    Prof. Roberta Pearson (Professor of Film and Television Studies,
      Nottingham, 2004-present) and Dr Elizabeth Evans (Lecturer in Film and
      Television Studies, Nottingham, 2007-present) have produced original
      audience research to generate greater understanding of viewer engagements
      with film and television programming in terms of taste, distinction and
      community. This has been applied in local, national and global contexts,
      leading to the following changes in institutional policy and the provision
      of services in the following ways:
    
      improving access to television programming for a particular community
        of viewers, i.e. visually impaired audiences, through the Royal National
        Institute of Blind People's (RNIB) national campaign to raise the quota
        of Audio Described (AD) television content
      promoting strategies for increasing revenue and audience retention at
        the Broadway Cinema and Media Centre and QUAD, independent cinema venues
        in Nottingham and Derby showing `specialised' or non-mainstream films,
        including foreign-language and archive titles
      increasing commercial opportunities for the Fox Soccer network to
        internationalize its brand identity by recognising the specific
        characteristics defining local audience tastes in the highly competitive
        market for global television sports programming.
    
    "
"
    Dr Paul Gladston's (Associate Professor of Critical Theory and Visual
      Culture, Nottingham, 2005- present) research has served to problematize
      and add complexity to the public understanding of the relationship between
      contemporary Chinese art and the wider conditions of its making and
      showing both within and outside the Peoples' Republic of China (PRC). The
      Chief Curator of the Hayward Gallery exhibition Art of Change: New
        Directions from China (2012) drew on Gladston's expertise in the
      exhibition's presentation. The exhibition attracted over 22,000 visitors,
      with international media coverage leading to wider critical engagement in
      broadcast and social media. A challenging review of the exhibition in The
        Guardian by the high profile artist Ai Weiwei, followed by
      Gladston's response, stimulated broader public debate around contemporary
      Chinese art.
    "
"
    Professor Zoe Trodd has contributed to changes in antislavery policy
      debate and practice at local, national and international levels&#8212;from
      lawyers' societies and school teachers, to national non-governmental
      organisations (NGOs) and the European Parliament&#8212;through a series of
      publications, consultations, public talks, and contributions to teaching
      and digital resources about contemporary slavery and abolitionism. Drawing
      on her own research, as well as research into historic forms of slave
      resistance and literary abolitionism by two other professors in the UoA,
      she has intervened in contemporary abolitionism by advising the government
      bodies, NGOs and community organisations working to liberate slaves, pass
      antislavery legislation and remove slavery from industries' supply chains.
    "
"
    Professor Matthew Jones was selected as a Cabinet Office official
      historian in 2008. His research has provided a historical context and
      knowledge base for senior Cabinet Office and Ministry of Defence officials
      currently engaged with strategic nuclear policymaking. Jones' research
      (including insights into the costs overruns, technical uncertainty, and
      delay of previous nuclear deterrents) has contributed to the process of
      policy-making, informing how senior officials responsible for dealing with
      debates over future options in the strategic nuclear policy field will
      deploy public expenditure of over &#163;20 billion.
    "
"
    The interdisciplinary study of Black and Latino visual cultures by
      Professor Celeste-Marie Bernier and Dr Stephanie Lewthwaite has led to the
      retrieval of lost and neglected art from the 19th and 20th
      centuries and to the display of this artwork for the first time. The
      research and recovery process has provided new information for curators
      and archivists who have begun to change their practice to reflect this
      expanded canon.
    "
"
    Previously un-exhibited archival material has illuminated the formative
      early part of Gladstone's political life for new audiences through
      commemorative exhibitions, talks, and related digital resources
      contributing to:
    
      
public access to previously unseen sources &#8212; Gaunt curated a
        popular exhibition at the Weston Gallery, Nottingham, using original
        archival material;
      an expanded knowledge base and research network for local
        curators through Gaunt's role as historical consultant for related
        Nottinghamshire events;
      significant new audiences for a small regional museum;
      
new forms of cultural preservation &#8212; the recording of a
        Gladstone election song, discovered through Gaunt's research, by a local
        singing group;
      the delivery of enriched curriculum content for school and
        college students studying the Victorian period.
    
    "
"
    An exhibition stimulated reflection on and provided new knowledge and
      perspectives on migration &#8212; historical and contemporary &#8212; for audiences in
      Nottingham and Glasgow. Linked teacher resources enhanced the capacity of
      local teachers to deliver challenging content on cross-curricula themes
      such as displacement, migration and asylum.
    Physical material and cultural capital (individual and group memory as
      embodied in audio-visual oral histories) which would otherwise have
      disappeared have been preserved and transformed into educational material
      for a local Ukrainian community organisation, adding to its resource base
      and capacity. A national Polish diasporic community organisation has
      benefitted from access to research and advice to enhance its capacity to
      engage new audiences with its work and histories.
    "
"
    Through accessible local history resources co-produced by academics and
      community volunteers,
      Riden has helped to open up previously academic-focused research to new,
      local audiences. He
      has empowered amateur historians through new research skills to take an
      active role in
      documenting and thereby conserving their communities' histories (this has
      included volunteers
      publishing their own research). He has contributed to an improved quality
      of visitor experience at a
      local heritage organisation through providing new knowledge and confidence
      to volunteer guides.
      Through translating the co-produced resources for use in primary and
      secondary schools, he has
      given children new research skills which they have then used to develop
      new understanding of
      their community's history.
    "
"
    Research by Haase underpinned the successful renaming of one of the
      central sites of the new Germany &#8212; the Marion-Countess-D&#246;nhoff-Platz in
      Berlin &#8212; in 2010/11. Haase's research informed the politically sensitive
      consultation process between politicians and local communities, and within
      the communities themselves, and provided research that helped deliver
      broad-based community support for the new name. The research-informed
      community engagement approach facilitated by Haase's research set a
      national standard of excellence in renaming processes. A permanent
      interpretation board contributes historical depth to locals' and tourists'
      experience of the Square.
    "
"
    Having itself developed Dynamical Energy Analysis (DEA), a
      numerical simulation tool that significantly enhances the modelling of
      noise and vibration (NV) in large-scale engineering structures in the mid-
      to high-frequency range, The University of Nottingham (UoN) has advanced
      the method to a practical numerical tool used in a commercial environment.
      By working with industrial partners, the team has influenced numerical
      simulation products developed by consultants to the transport sector and
      obtained investment in the new technology from vehicle manufacturers.
    The method provides time and cost savings by making it possible to
      undertake NV modelling over the entire frequency range, and further
      contributes to the industry's objectives to reduce traffic noise and
      enhance passenger comfort.
    "
"
    Techniques developed at The University of Nottingham (UoN) have enabled
      organisations to deal with uncertainty in complex industrial and policy
      problems that rely on the elicitation of expert opinion and knowledge. The
      statistical toolkit produced for use in complex decision-making processes
      has been deployed in a wide range of applications. It has been
      particularly useful in asset management planning in organisations such as
      the London Underground, government approaches to evidence-based policy,
      and the Met Office UK Climate Projection tool (UKCP09), which is used by
      hundreds of organisations across the UK such as environment agencies, city
      and county councils, water companies and tourist boards.
    "
"
    Research at The University of Nottingham's (UoN) Centre for Mathematical
      Medicine and Biology (CMMB) has informed a wide array of beneficiaries
      including public policy-makers, clinicians and industry in biomedical
      fields such as cancer and hospital infections. Through a wide range of
      mechanisms such as Study Groups, training, outreach and user-engagement,
      the CMMB has established an outstanding track record of furthering the use
      of mathematics and statistics to address medical and biological problems.
    "
"
    Methods of emulation, model calibration and uncertainty analysis
      developed by Professor Tony O'Hagan and his team at The University of
      Nottingham (UoN) have formed the basis of Pratt &amp; Whitney's Design for
      Variation (DFV) initiative which was established in 2008. The global
      aerospace manufacturers describe the initiative as a `paradigm shift' that
      aims to account for all sources of uncertainty and variation across their
      entire design process.
    Pratt &amp; Whitney considers their implementation of the methods to
      provide competitive advantage, and published savings from Pratt &amp;
      Whitney adopting the DFV approach for a fleet of military aircraft are
      estimated to be approximately US$1billion.
    "
"
    Methodologies for shape analysis developed by the Shape and Object Data
      Analysis group at The
      University of Nottingham (UoN) have underpinned important applications
      resulting in a range of
      benefits for companies and organisations, including in human movement
      capture and fingerprint
      modelling.
    Firstly, the economic benefits of the methodologies developed at
      Nottingham to capture human
      movement data without a calibration trial have been used by a commercial
      software company,
      Charnwood Dynamics Ltd, and have saved time for its users and increased
      portability. Secondly,
      by incorporating research methods into practice, practitioners have
      improved standard processes,
      which have resulted in efficiency savings. Organisations which have
      benefitted from the research
      methods include the German Federal Police, where the methodology has been
      used in modelling
      growth in adolescent fingerprints, resulting in lower error rates and a
      reduction in false matches.
    "
"
    University of Nottingham research into a composite design for steel beams
      and floor slabs has resulted in environmental and economic benefits and an
      important change in the construction industry. The work has reduced the
      weight of beams and the overall tonnage of buildings, enabled easier
      installation and improved structural strength. More than 40 projects, with
      a total combined floor area in excess of 380,000m2, have used
      the technology since 2008, and the method's market share has been
      estimated at up to 60%. The breakthrough has facilitated partnerships
      between steel frame designers and precast flooring manufacturers, with the
      value to the latter alone put at more than &#163;5M.
    "
"
    A range of small specimen creep testing methods have been developed
      through research carried
      out at the University of Nottingham (UoN). These tests are being used in
      the following ways: RWE
      npower has used the impression creep test on approximately 180 samples
      taken from its power
      plants in the UK, France and Holland; AMEC has installed two impression
      creep test rigs for testing
      nuclear power plant materials for a range of EDF Energy power plants;
      Laborelec is using the
      small ring techniques for evaluating nickel based super alloys in turbine
      blades for clients in
      Belgium and Holland and the Electrical Power Research Institute (EPRI) has
      used the small
      specimen techniques, with the assistance of UoN, on power plant structures
      in the USA.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham has played a key role in shaping public policy
    in relation to flood risk management. Its work on novel methods of measuring
    and projecting changes in land and sea levels has provided new information
    on subsidence in the South East of the UK, leading to revised and more
    accurate estimates of how flood risk will develop over the course of the
    21st century. These insights are being used to help protect more than a
    million people and billions of pounds' worth of property and are also being
    applied to major Europe-wide studies intended to inform civil protection
    agencies, disaster-management organisations, transport authorities and the
    wider public.
    "
"
    Research into the biomechanics of intervertebral discs at the University
      of Nottingham has made a
      significant contribution to the development of two medical implants
      (Cadisc&#174;- L and Cadisc&#174;-C) by
      Ranier Technology Ltd. 226 patients (90% outside the UK) have had this
      treatment, which has
      outperformed the alternatives by 34% in measured outcomes of reducing
      patient disability (ODI),
      pain and quality of life (QALY). Consequently, Cadisc&#174; now accounts for
      all of Ranier's business.
      The company has expanded its workforce to 35 people and has attracted
      external investment of
      &#163;13M to perform clinical trials and manufacture the product.
    "
"
    Underpinned by research at the University of Nottingham, the development
      of automated
      discontinuous carbon fibre preforming (DCFP) technology has helped drive
      more than half a billion
      pounds in sales of Aston Martin's DBS sports car across 42 countries,
      boosting the company's
      brand worldwide. Recognising the potential of this process, Bentley Motors
      invested &#163;1.3M directly
      to develop this technology for its next generation of models. The Royal
      Academy of Engineering
      acknowledged the body of research as an ""outstanding"" contribution to the
      reputation of British
      engineering through the award of a silver medal to Professor Warrior.
    "
"
    Dr Richard Brooks and his team at the University of Nottingham have been
      investigating the high strain rate behaviour of composite materials since
      2003. This has led to the development of two products that are being
      installed in streets in the UK and Ireland by East Midlands SME Frangible
      Safety Posts Ltd. The direct benefits to the company have been: the
      installation of 900 products in the UK and Ireland; saving of &#163;17k capital
      cost and 2 months in terms of time to market per product developed and;
      raising of &#163;1.8M investment to bring the products to market At least one
      life has already been saved in the Shetland Islands as a direct
      consequence of the product behaving in the way it was designed to.
    "
"
    A University of Nottingham research programme on rail human factors, in
      collaboration with Network Rail, has delivered significant impact to
      practitioners and professional services within the industry. New tools for
      workload management and efficiency are now routinely used as part of
      Network Rail's ergonomics toolkit and are supporting the fulfilment of the
      company's National Operating Strategy. Risk analysis tools have also
      contributed to Network Rail's programme providing enhanced asset
      information.
    These tools have also been taken up by international train operators in
      Australia and the Netherlands.
    "
"
    Research at the University of Nottingham into the use of phase- change
      materials as a means for heating and cooling buildings has resulted in the
      development of COOL-PHASE&#174;, a product which is sold by Monodraught ltd.
      The system was launched in 2008 and has been installed in 136 buildings in
      the UK. COOL-PHASE&#174; underpins the long-term growth strategy for the
      company and Monodraught has invested in employing 3 new staff and &#163;250k in
      capital expenditure to make the unit suitable for mass production.
    "
"
    University of Nottingham research into the use of natural lighting and
      ventilation in building design has resulted in the development, marketing
      and application of two new sister products (SunCatcher and Sola-Vent) by a
      leading supplier of low-carbon, low-energy solutions. Since 2008, 745
      installations of Sola-Vent units have been carried out by Monodraught Ltd.
      Homes and commercial premises, both in the UK and overseas, have
      benefitted from the low energy demands of the system. As well as
      delivering economic benefits for the company, this work has had a positive
      impact on building owners and occupiers and the wider environment.
    "
"
    A development of six Creative Energy Homes (CEH) on the University of
      Nottingham campus
      provides a living test-site for leading firms, including E.ON, David
      Wilson Homes, BASF, Tarmac,
      Roger Bullivant and Igloo Blueprint to work with the University of
      Nottingham to investigate the
      integration of energy efficient technologies into houses. As a result of
      this work, Lovell homes has
      won a number of sustainable housing contracts, Roger Bullivant have
      developed and installed 30
      SystemFirst&#8482; foundation systems and Igloo Blueprint have built &#163;7M
      worth of new homes. The
      research findings have informed the UK Government's ""Green Deal"" strategy,
      the Nottingham
      Community Climate Change Strategy and received widespread acclaim through
      a number of public
      engagement activities reaching out to over 5 million people.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham's School of Chemistry has developed a novel
      method of
      incorporating thermally or chemically labile biologically active
      substances into polymers. This has
      been achieved by using supercritical carbon dioxide as a medium for the
      synthesis and
      modification of polymeric materials. The method has been employed as the
      basis for new drug-delivery
      devices whose viability in the healthcare sphere has been confirmed by
      patient trials. The
      spin-out company, Critical Pharmaceuticals Ltd, has delivered a range of
      economic benefits,
      including job creation, the securing of millions of pounds' worth of
      investment and a number of
      revenue-generating research collaborations.
    "
"
    University of Nottingham researchers have been at the forefront in
      promoting and establishing
      Green Chemistry in developing nations. Working with and influencing
      colleagues and policymakers
      in both the UK and Africa, they have increased awareness of the importance
      of introducing
      sustainable technologies that meet local communities' needs. As a result,
      they have invigorated
      the chemistry teaching curriculum in Ethiopia, placing Green Chemistry at
      its core, and helped
      shape the approaches of professional bodies, including the Royal Society
      of Chemistry, for the
      benefit of the developing world. This has led to what the British Council
      has described as ""a sense
      of empowerment and confidence"" among Ethiopian chemists.
    "
"
    The School of Chemistry has a long track record of pioneering and
      innovative outreach activities
      aimed at stimulating public interest and understanding in chemistry
      research and its societal
      impact. During the period 2008-2013 it successfully communicated to a
      wide-ranging audience the
      significance of a series of ""firsts"" in the areas of nanoscience and
      materials for energy applications.
      Using YouTube, Royal Society Summer Science Exhibitions, roadshows and
      science festivals, this
      award-winning approach has engaged hundreds of thousands through digital
      media and thousands
      more face-to-face, raising public awareness, inspiring interest in science
      and delivering educational
      benefits for students and teachers alike.
    "
"
    Research on the language of teenage health communication by staff from
      the School of English at
      the University of Nottingham has:
    
      
Raised health professionals' awareness and understanding of the
        language used by
        teenagers to discuss sensitive issues and helped to normalise
        adolescent health concerns
      
Helped to inform (local and national) government strategy for
        young people, and health
        education materials for children and their parents
      
Influenced changes in health practice through aiding the
        continuous professional
        development of healthcare professionals
    
    "
"
    Research on Lawrence has contributed to the conservation and preservation
      of a literary heritage of local, national and international significance
      through award-winning cultural activity in the Nottinghamshire region.
      School children, community and special interest groups, and a broader
      public through national and international media activity, have engaged
      with insights into Lawrence's life and local legacy through exhibitions,
      outreach and workshops, contributing to a deeper understanding and
      appreciation of Nottinghamshire's rich cultural heritage and to an
      improved tourist experience. The discovery of a previously unpublished
      Lawrence manuscript has served to reinvigorate public interest and debate
      and to challenge long-held public misconceptions about Lawrence's
      attitudes towards women.
    "
"
    Professor Brean Hammond's scholarly attribution of Double Falsehood
      as containing what remains of the `lost' Shakespeare/Fletcher Cardenio
      (1612/13) and his edition of the play for the prestigious Arden
      Shakespeare series contributed to the preservation and presentation of an
      element of literary cultural heritage that had previously been
      marginalised. Hammond's research has:
    
      
contributed to the economic prosperity of the Shakespeare
        publishing industry, delivering `unusually high' sales for Bloomsbury
        (publishers of his Arden edition), and more broadly serving as a
        stimulus for the publication of editions by rival publishers (CUP,
        Palgrave)
      
expanded theatrical repertoire through informing new theatre
        productions internationally, including the Royal Shakespeare Company's
          Cardenio (2011), reaching audiences in London, New York, Calgary
        and Utrecht
      
increased public awareness and knowledge of the play, and
        stimulated public interest in issues of canonisation, attribution and
        collaborative authorship through a broad range of international media
        engagement, and an international series of talks and lectures. The
        effect of this media engagement on Arden sales suggests engagement from
        a wider audience than that usually reached by scholarly editions.
    
    "
"
    Research undertaken by Dr John Baker at the University's Institute for
      Name-Studies (INS) through the Leverhulme-funded Landscapes of Governance
      project has:
    
      actively engaged community groups and individuals in academic research
        as volunteers: fifty of the project's 350 early medieval assembly sites
        were recorded by volunteer groups and individuals, a number of whom were
        inspired to undertake further related research of their own;
      enhanced public awareness and understanding about assembly sites
        through public engagement events, media coverage, `popular' publications
        (with local and national audiences totalling over 2 million) and freely
        available web resources, particularly the Key to English Place-Names
        (accessed by 18,913 individuals between January 2012 and July 2013);
      informed practice at the BBC through the provision of expert advice on
        a range of onomastic matters.
    
    "
"
    Our research on semiconductor materials and devices has led to the
      establishment by e2v Technologies of a combined manufacturing, research
      and development facility within the School of Physics and Astronomy. We
      have adapted and transferred device simulation software to e2v, and have
      provided epitaxially-grown semiconductors and access to fabrication
      facilities which have been used in their manufacturing processes. Devices
      fabricated within the facility, which was opened in 2011, have generated
      sales of &#163;7M for e2v. This initiative has also led to shifts in the
      investment priorities of e2v, and mitigated risks to the company arising
      from import restrictions associated with the US International Traffic in
      Arms Regulations (ITAR).
    "
"
    New methods to study the biophysical action of the human digestive system
      were developed in Nottingham using high speed magnetic resonance imaging
      (MRI) and have been used by: (i) the food and drug industry (Unilever,
      Proctor &amp; Gamble, Mitsubishi Chemicals, Reckitt Benckiser, Glaxo and
      McNeil Pharmaceuticals) to develop new products; (ii) Plant Bioscience
      Limited (PBL) to develop an artificial Dynamic Gut Model (DGM) which is
      now being applied commercially to characterise drug and food ingestion;
      (iii) the BBC and other media agencies in programmes related to the
      promotion of better understanding of nutrition in an effort to combat
      obesity.
    "
"
    Theoretical and computational methods for optimising the design of
      gradient and shim coils with
      arbitrary shapes and topologies were developed in collaboration with
      Magnex Scientific as part of a
      CASE award (2004-07). The resulting software was licenced to Agilent (who
      now own Magnex
      Scientific), for whom it has opened up new market opportunities in the
      supply of novel magnetic
      resonance imaging systems, leading to &#163;3.4M sales since 2009. The software
      has also been used
      by Paramed Medical Systems to improve their `open' magnetic resonance
      imaging systems, which
      are optimised for orthopaedic imaging, allow vertical subject posture, and
      facilitate image-guided
      treatment, as well as offering a better patient experience. Our work has
      thus resulted in impact in
      the economy and healthcare.
    "
"
    Nottingham researchers constructed the world's first 3T MRI scanner, thus
      demonstrating the viability and benefits of high-field MRI. This provided
      a stimulus for magnet and MRI system manufacturers to develop 3T scanners,
      which have now become established as the standard platform for high-end
      clinical MRI studies. We estimate that since 2008: 2500 3T scanners have
      been installed, representing a global investment of $5 billion;and 30-40
      million patient examinations have been performed with 3T MRI scanners.
      Technical advances which underpinned the Nottingham 3T scanner also
      impacted on the development of functional MRI, thus opening up a new field
      of medical research and clinical application. In a subsequent phase of
      research, the Nottingham group developed ultra-high (7T) magnetic MRI in
      partnership with PhiIips; forty 7T MRI scanners (current unit cost
      &gt;$10M) have now been installed across the world.
    "
"
    Our research on the physiological effects of the electromagnetic fields
      generated in magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) has been used by: (i) the International Commission
      on Non-Ionizing
      Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) and the UK Health Protection Agency (HPA) in
      establishing advisory
      limits and action values in their published regulatory guidelines; (ii)
      the EU Commission as part of
      the evidential basis in their decision to derogate MRI from the scope of
      the Physical Agents
      Directive 2004/40/EC. These decisions have enabled the continued operation
      of MR scanners
      across Europe, safeguarding the access to MRI for 500 million people. The
      economic benefits
      arising from the manufacture of MRI equipment were also secured. Our work
      has thus resulted in
      impact on public policy, the economy and healthcare.
    "
"
    In collaboration with film-maker Brady Haran we have developed the
      YouTube channel Sixty Symbols to present topics related to
      research in physics to the wider public. Since the 2009 launch of Sixty
        Symbols we have posted 212 videos, which have amassed 21.2M views,
      over 200k comments, over 266k subscribers and a content approval rating of
      99.4%, placing Sixty Symbols in the top 0.01% of all YouTube
      channels. The success of Sixty Symbols led to commissions from
      Google and STFC for the launch of additional science-focused YouTube
      channels, and to the formation of the company Periodic Videos Ltd
      by Brady Haran (2011). Quantitative evidence gathered by management
      consultants, O'Herlihy &amp; Co, demonstrates Sixty Symbols'
      global reach, and significant impact on the attitudes, scientific
      understanding and career aspirations of its audience. Overall the impact
      has been on society, culture and creativity through the promotion of
      public engagement and discourse on science and engineering, and through
      educational use in schools.
    "
"
    This research informed the introduction and on-going implementation of a
      major criminal policy innovation, namely, Pre-Trial Witness Interviewing
      (PTWI) by Crown Prosecutors across England and Wales. It was conducted in
      partnership with the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), and provided
      independent evaluation of PTWI as an integral component of the piloting
      phase prior to national roll-out. The research formed part of the initial
      PTWI training of selected Crown Prosecutors and, following roll-out,
      continued to serve as a resource for frontline prosecutors, affecting case
      progression, complainants' experiences and the outcomes of criminal cases
      (prominently including serious sexual assaults and domestic violence).
    "
"
    Sustained published research in the area of UN human rights treaty body
      reform has positioned O'Flaherty as the principal international specialist
      in the area. He led the 'Dublin Process on the Strengthening of the United
      Nations Human Rights Treaty Body System', a process that is acknowledged
      globally as the primary context/forum for the reform of the treaty body
      system. A number of specific proposals made by the Dublin Process on
      reforming the human rights treaty body system draw directly from his
      research.
    "
"
    Professor Sue Arrowsmith's research significantly influenced UNCITRAL's
      revised 2011 Model Law on Public Procurement. This is a model regulatory
      framework of global relevance that aims to help national governments avoid
      waste, secure adequate public services, and fight corruption in
      procurement. The UNCITRAL Secretariat's presentation of reform options to
      the Model Law Working Group was based directly on both the novel
      analytical templates and the detailed recommendations developed by
      Arrowsmith, and many of the revised Model Law's provisions on both
      existing and new subjects of regulation follow directly the specific
      recommendations in Arrowsmith's research.
    "
"
    Research conducted at the University of Nottingham has played a key role
      in developing new guidance for judges giving directions to juries in rape
      trials in England and Wales. The research explored the influence of
      providing (mock) jurors with education to counter `rape stereotypes'. Its
      findings fed into the work of an Expert Panel, convened by the
      Solicitor-General, and played a key role in supporting the inclusion of
      `myth-busting' directions in the Crown Court Benchbook. These may alter
      the ways in which jurors deliberate and ensure greater justice.
      Beneficiaries include the CPS, judges, jurors, rape complainants, criminal
      justice practitioners and policy-makers, and the general public.
    "
"
    Comparative legal and penological research conducted by Professor Dirk
      van Zyl Smit (DvZS) and
      Dr R&#243;is&#237;n Mulgrew (RM) has had a significant effect internationally and
      nationally in shaping law
      and policy relating to the implementation of imprisonment in general, and
      on life imprisonment,
      sanctions for young offenders and the transfer and treatment of foreign
      and international prisoners
      in particular. This research has underpinned the creation and development
      of penal law and policy
      in states (e.g. Bangladesh and Malaysia), international and regional
      organisations (e.g, European
      Union, Council of Europe, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime), as
      well as in the judgments
      and policies of international and regional human rights and criminal
      courts and tribunals (e.g.
      European Court of Human Rights and the International Criminal Court).
    "
"
    The capacity of national and international criminal justice institutions
      to investigate and prosecute the most serious international crimes has
      been significantly strengthened as a result of Professor Bekou's research.
      They gain, through `legal tools', universal access to legal information
      and to analytical legal frameworks which facilitate the efficient and
      effective administration of international criminal justice. By offering
      access to knowledge, skills and expertise, the International Criminal
      Court as well as States, e.g. the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC)
      and Sierra Leone are empowered to overcome the key challenges restricting
      their ability and capacity to pursue justice for atrocities.
    "
"
    An international patent emanating from research from Professor Paul
      Greenhaff's laboratory and
      owned by the University of Nottingham (UoN) was purchased by MuscleTech
      Inc. in 2001 (along
      with provision of &#163;750k research funding), and used to underpin their
      highly successful creatine
      based sports supplement, CellTech. The patent has since been used in [text
      removed for publication] products creating sales worth $[text removed for
      publication] million (US) since 2010.
      A further international patent from the same laboratory based on research
      on carnitine as a sports
      supplement has to date been accepted in Australia and Canada and used by
      the Olympic Team
      GB in 2012. Negotiations between the UoN and a global company regarding
      the licencing of this
      technology are at an advanced stage.
    "
"
    Research by Professor David Brook on inherited disorders has made a major
      contribution to the human genetics field. The work involved gene
      identification and mutation detection for genotype/phenotype correlation
      analysis in patients, which has led to the development of diagnostic tests
      for inherited conditions including myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1),
      Holt-Oram Syndrome (HOS), and campomelic dysplasia (CD). The tests have
      benefitted patients in the UK and throughout the rest of the world and in
      many cases they have been used as the definitive diagnostic measure. The
      assays developed have also been used in affected families for prenatal
      diagnosis to enable informed reproductive decisions.
    "
"
    Members of the Pharmacology Research Group identified hitherto unknown
      properties of G protein Coupled Receptors (GPCRs): that ligands can signal
      differentially through both G-protein-coupled and &#946;-arrestin pathways.
      This led to the concept of GPCR `biased signalling' and development of
      fluorescent reporters to quantify &#946;-arrestin signalling. These discoveries
      have been adopted widely by the pharmaceutical industry, attracting
      R&amp;D investment and collaborative research funding, to drive discovery
      of new drugs operating through `biased signalling'. The commercial
      opportunity has also been exploited by screening reagent providers and
      contract screening organisations. These discoveries will ultimately
      produce better drugs to treat GPCR-based diseases to improve human health.
    "
"
    Bacteria of the Clostridium genus are of pathogenic, medical and
      industrial importance. Development by University of Nottingham School of
      Life Science researchers of three patented methods for genetic
      manipulation of clostridial species has led to licensing agreements for
      commercial exploitation of the methodology to enhance strains for chemical
      commodity and biofuel production and for targeted cancer therapy. These
      methods are providing significant world-wide impact by facilitating
      commercial R&amp;D investment and technology developments in fields
      ranging from healthcare, through chemicals manufacture, to the
      environment.
    "
"
    The Sinai Baton Blue is the world's smallest butterfly, and is restricted
      to the St. Katherine Protectorate in the South Sinai region of Egypt.
      Research by Francis Gilbert's group on climate change and biodiversity in
      Egypt surveyed populations of the butterfly for the first time and ensured
      it received IUCN Critically Endangered status. The butterfly became the
      focus of biodiversity awareness campaigns in Egypt: appearing on a stamp,
      in Government-backed educational programmes in schools, and as the
      flagship species for conservation in Egypt's most important National Park.
      Current work contributes to international conservation of this extremely
      rare species and its host-plant, respecting indigenous Bedouin knowledge,
      benefitting their tribal community, and ensuring international
      conservation strategies incorporate local pastoralist traditions to
      sustain the genetic diversity of the planet.
    "
"
    Research by Professor Kevin Fone in the Neuroscience group has
      established and characterised rodent models of CNS disorders that have
      been instrumental in validating several 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)
      receptors as therapeutic drug targets to treat learning and memory
      dysfunction in humans. Specifically, animal studies to validate the 5-HT6
      receptor for cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD), depression
      and schizophrenia have resulted in R&amp;D investment in drug discovery
      programmes by several global pharmaceutical companies. Consequent advances
      in healthcare benefits (current and potential) are also summarised.
    "
"
    A research team, led by Professor John Robertson, was joined by Professor
      Herb Sewell as lead
      collaborator. They developed a blood test that permitted early detection
      of lung cancer in high risk
      patients, allowing earlier and more successful treatment. The EarlyCDT-Lung
      test was
      commercialised by the university spin-out, Oncimmune, and launched in
      2010. It is in clinical use in
      North and South America, in private clinics in the UK and in some Middle
      East countries,
      generating employment and revenues for the company, and is starting to
      bring mortality and
      lifestyle benefits to patients and their families.
    "
"
    Fluorescent ligand technologies developed by Professor Hill and Dr
      Briddon in the Pharmacology research group, in collaboration with
      Professor Kellam in the School of Pharmacy, permitted biophysical analysis
      of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) at the individual cell and molecule
      level for the first time. The technologies have been commercialised
      through the spin-out business, CellAura Technologies (and their
      distributors Abcam, Sigma-Aldrich and others), generating revenues and
      making the products available to researchers and drug discovery
      communities worldwide. Custom product developments with global
      pharmaceutical companies and drug screening reagent providers have
      generated further partnership revenues and technology benefits.
      Nottingham-trained researchers are now employed worldwide, broadening the
      technology's impacts.
    "
"
    Weak acids (e.g. sorbic acid) are used by food manufacturers to prevent
      fungal contamination of
      food and beverages. Professor Archer in the Molecular Microbiology group
      determined the fungal
      species that cause such contamination, and identified fungal genes and
      enzymes that confer
      resistance to sorbic acid during initial outgrowth of fungal spores. They
      characterised the
      biochemistry of the resistance mechanism, enabling design of improved
      mould inhibitors. These
      inhibitors, used at the correct time, have improved manufacturing
      processes to prevent mould
      contamination and product wastage. Knowledge of mould genetics has also
      been applied to other
      industries to improve food additive and biofuel manufacturing processes.
    "
"
    Professor James and colleagues developed a comprehensive, multi-strand
      strategy for control of healthcare-associated infections caused by
      life-threatening bacterial superbugs Clostridium difficile (C.diff)
      and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Founded on
      research to understand the transmission, virulence and antibiotic
      resistance of these species, their approach resulted in: (i) increased
      public awareness of healthcare associated infections; (ii) changed
      behaviours of the public and healthcare professionals to reduce
      transmission; (iii) improved national healthcare policies to control
      infections; and (iv) development of new antibiotic methods to tackle the
      rapidly-evolving resistance. The outcome is a nationwide decline in
      reported cases of C.diff and MRSA infections in patients since
      2008, with consequent economic benefits to the NHS, Government and
      employers.
    "
"
    Research undertaken by Professor Antoni Kapcia has had far-reaching
      influences on policy formation (internationally) and has improved the
      intelligence base on Cuba for journalists, business organisations and
      diplomatic missions. It has:
    
      Helped to inform and shape UK government policy towards Cuba through a
        sustained advisory relationship between Kapcia and the Foreign and
        Commonwealth Office;
      Influenced the policy community (including U.S. government officials
        and foreign diplomats) in Washington and internationally through the
        provision of intelligence to the Americas Program at the Center for
        Strategic and International Studies in Washington, D.C.;
      Contributed new knowledge and insights to a broad-based audience of
        journalists, business organisations and diplomatic missions (worldwide)
        through the Economist Intelligence Unit, furthering their understanding
        of Cuba and informing their approaches and practice.
    
    "
"
    Work with veterans, diplomats, trauma specialists and journalists under
      the auspices of the International Consortium for the Study of
      Post-Conflict Reconciliation and Reconstruction (ICSPRR) has allowed
      Professor Bernard McGuirk's research to contribute to processes of
      reconstruction and reconciliation between Argentina and the UK. Dialogue
      between Argentinian and British war veterans from the 1982 conflict was
      facilitated for the first time and underpinned new understanding,
      beginning a process of healing. Through expert advice, McGuirk has
      influenced the thinking and approach to diplomacy of the Argentine Embassy
      in London and has influenced the way young diplomats in the Argentine
      Foreign Service in Buenos Aires are trained. His insights have informed
      broadcast and media content for two prominent journalists.
    "
"
    A series of cross-sectoral workshops brought together for the first time
      professional mediators and translators with academics to share knowledge
      and experience of the cultural aspects of mediation. The workshops
      addressed the question of how better outcomes might be brought about
      through a deeper understanding of the significance of cultural differences
      in the mediation process. The knowledge shared in the workshops materially
      changed practice in three global mediation organisations. In doing so it
      has begun to bring about a transformation in relation to translation and
      the cultural challenges in the process of conflict resolution across
      borders.
    "
"
    Using a ground-breaking database of recovered narratives of Latin
      American women during the Wars of Independence,
    
      new histories have been created and shared with audiences in Buenos
        Aires, London and Nottingham through exhibitions, workshops, guided city
        tours, theatre productions and translation programmes leading to new
          public knowledge and raised awareness;
      drama and photography workshops have enabled a community of young
        Latin American migrant women in London to understand their collective
        heritage and cultural identity more fully, and through this
        understanding, to develop personal confidence and pride;
      employees of Southwark Council have changed how they work with their
        growing Latin American community after participating in a cultural and
        language exchange series contributing to improved community cohesion.
    
    "
"
    Bamforth's research on the Renaissance scientific marvel contributed to a
      major French exhibition The Birth of Modern Lorraine (Mus&#233;e
      Lorrain, Nancy, 4 May-4 August 2013). The exhibition
    
      provided 24,295 visitors (from Nancy, Lorraine, rest of France, the EU
        and rest of world) with increased knowledge of the rich cultural
        heritage and worldview of Renaissance Lorraine
      increased the flow of visitors (11,467 first-time visitors) to the
        museum itself
      raised the museum's profile through the French Ministry of Culture's
        formal designation of the exhibition as a `cultural event of national
        importance'
      attracted 5,000,000&#8364; of public and private funding for this and its
        sister exhibitions in Nancy
      enhanced public perceptions of the image of the museum
      acted as a flagship for the museum's ambitious programme of expansion
        and renovation
      enhanced public perceptions (locally, nationally and internationally)
        of the historical and cultural importance of both town and region
      renewed civic pride and regional optimism following a period of
        industrial decline
    
    "
"
    Hitchcott's research on the relation between textual and material
      commemorations of the 1994
      Rwanda genocide has benefited survivors and rescuers whose experiences
      form the basis of the
      Francophone African novels on which she publishes. As a result of her
      leadership of a research
      collaboration between The University of Nottingham and The Aegis Trust, a
      leading
      Nottinghamshire-based NGO dedicated to the prevention of genocide through
      education, an AHRC
      Collaborative Doctoral Award has ensured that:
    
      the stories of Rwandan survivors and rescuers are more accurately
        preserved in Genocide
        Archive Rwanda in Kigali
      their stories are digitally available worldwide through the new Rwanda
        Archive and Education
        Programme of The Shoah Foundation (the American partner of Aegis),
        following the selection,
        translation and editing by Hitchcott's CDA-holder of 50 Rwanda genocide
        testimonies
      authentic survivor testimonies can be accessed by school teachers for
        use in teaching about
        crimes against humanity
      the quality of evidence available to historians of the 1994 Rwanda
        genocide has improved
      the quality of materials available to the general public, within
        Rwanda and worldwide, for
        understanding and learning from the genocide has been enhanced.
    
    "
"
    Access to a rare collection of Soviet war posters &#8212; unique in the UK, and
      one of the largest
      internationally &#8212; has been facilitated through a process of conservation,
      digitisation and display.
      Research by Professor Marsh underpinned two exhibitions based on the
      collection (one physical
      and one digital) and a linked public engagement programme, creating new
      knowledge and awareness
      of the historical and aesthetic contexts of the posters, Soviet visual
      culture, the Soviet Union
      in the Second World War and the form and role of propaganda in a time of
      conflict. The digital
      resource provides permanent and interactive access to a rare and
      physically fragile element of
      Soviet cultural heritage, inspiring engagement from educators, members of
      cultural and community
      organisations and the public.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham's School of Contemporary Chinese Studies
      (SCCS) has played a key role in influencing policy and practice with
      regard to the integration of Chinese migrant communities. A model of
      global citizenship, as facilitated through community-university
      partnerships and student volunteers, has benefited a wide range of
      stakeholders in both ""sending"" and ""receiving"" nations, including
      international organisations, governments, local councils, civil society
      groups and, most significantly, Chinese community members themselves. The
      platform for collaboration that has emerged has been described by the
      co-founder of the Chinese Liberal Democrats group as a model for such
      initiatives across the UK.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham's School of Contemporary Chinese Studies
      (SCCS) has, through its China Policy Institute (CPI), been at the
      forefront of explaining the crucial lessons of China's journey towards
      economic superpower status. By shedding light on major concerns such as
      the labour and housing markets, best practices in statistics, the banking
      system and future ""growth engines"", it has influenced policy in a number
      of Chinese ministries, the country's National Bureau of Statistics and the
      People's Bank of China. It has also assisted in training a new generation
      of Chinese officials, highlighted methodologies that are now being applied
      to other emerging economies and raised awareness of key issues at
      grass-roots level.
    "
"
    The China Policy Institute (CPI) at the University of Nottingham's School
      of Contemporary
      Chinese Studies (SCCS) has played a significant role in challenging
      simplistic and stereotypical
      perceptions of China at a time when the need for a fully nuanced
      understanding of the country is
      high on every policymaker's agenda. CPI has advised governments and other
      organisations on
      China-related strategies, offering guidance on topics including the nature
      of the political system
      and the drivers behind key international relations. Its work has helped
      inform policymakers,
      influenced and facilitated the strategic activities of groups including
      The Elders and the Royal
      United Services Institute and raised wider awareness of Chinese political
      culture.
    "
"
    The Nottingham Bowel Cancer Screening trial showed that biennial Faecal
      Occult Blood testing reduced bowel cancer mortality by 16%. As a
      consequence of this trial, the Department of Health launched two screening
      pilots and introduced a National Bowel Cancer Screening Programme (NBCSP),
      achieving national coverage in 2010. Since 2008, this has sent out almost
      18 million invitations and detected 16,000 bowel cancers, of which 21.6%
      were early cancers with a 95% chance of cure. It is estimated that the
      NBCSP saves around 3,500 lives each year in the UK. International
      screening programmes modelled on the UK system will save many more.
    "
"
    As part of a 20 year partnership with AstraZeneca, Professor John
      Robertson, University of Nottingham, has made the largest and most
      consistent contribution by a clinical academic to the development of the
      most recent endocrine agent licensed for breast cancer, fulvestrant
      (Faslodex&#174;). [text removed for publication]. Since 2008, fulvestrant 250mg
      has continued to be registered and launched in a number of countries based
      on Robertson's work, and Robertson has enhanced the clinical uptake of
      fulvestrant 250mg through training. His research has also been
      instrumental in the development and uptake of the more efficacious
      fulvestrant 500mg, including registration in 2010.
    "
"
    Research directed by Professor John Robertson at The University of
      Nottingham led to the launch, in 2009, of the world's first autoantibody
      blood test for the detection of early-stage lung cancer. The EarlyCDT-Lung
      test has been commercialised through the spin-out company Oncimmune. [text
      removed for publication]. EarlyCDT-Lung is now used clinically in
      North and South America, the UK and the Middle East, generating revenue
      and saving lives.
    "
"
    Research in the Centre of Evidence Based Dermatology at the University of
      Nottingham has
      improved the lives of children with eczema throughout the world. This has
      been achieved by
      improving the evidence base for clinical care through identifying
      treatments that work and those
      that do not, thus reducing the burden of disease for patients and reducing
      costs for patients and
      the NHS. Clinical care has been improved, economic benefits have been
      realised and Government
      policy informed.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham's Children's Brain Tumour Research Centre
      developed new NHS evidence-accredited referral guidelines, published in
      2008, to reduce diagnostic delays for children with brain tumours. Their
      messages were disseminated through an awareness campaign, `HeadSmart &#8212; Be
      Brain Tumour Aware', launched in 2011. Three months post-launch, 11% of
      the UK population (over 14 million people) and 73% of paediatricians were
      aware of HeadSmart, and diagnostic confidence among paediatricians had
      risen from 32% to 54%. The time from symptom onset to brain tumour
      diagnosis reduced from 14.4 weeks in 2006 to 6.9 weeks in 2013. This
      strategy is a `world first' in paediatric brain tumour, now being emulated
      internationally.
    "
"
    Research from the University of Nottingham on aminoglycoside antibiotics
      in cystic fibrosis (CF) has changed clinical practice and improved patient
      safety internationally. There are over 70,000 people with CF worldwide.
      Most require frequent and prolonged intravenous courses of aminoglycoside
      antibiotics (which can cause kidney damage) to treat chronic lung
      infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. This infection may lead to
      respiratory failure and death. Our research has influenced national and
      international guidelines, and changed practice, such that once-daily
      aminoglycosides (less toxic to the kidneys) are now used. We have also
      stopped the use of gentamicin, in favour of less toxic aminoglycosides.
    "
"
    Original research carried out by The University of Nottingham has shown
      that both knowledge and practice related to perioperative fluid
      prescribing was poor, resulting in significant and avoidable postoperative
      morbidity. We have shown that maintaining patients in as near a state of
      zero fluid balance as possible reduces hospital stay by 3.4 days and
      complication rate by 41%. Our work guided the formulation of the British
      Consensus Guidelines and NICE Guidelines on intravenous fluid therapy for
      adult surgical patients. It has also reduced the frequency of
      postoperative fluid overload, and led to improved patient outcome and
      potential financial benefits of &#163;122m per year for NHS England.
    "
"
    Research at the University of Nottingham has defined the clinical
      phenotype and management of lymphangioleiomyomatosis, a rare and often
      fatal multisystem disease affecting 1 in 200,000 women worldwide. The
      group has led the development and evaluation of new therapies and
      diagnostic strategies which are now part of routine clinical care. The
      research has underpinned the transformation of this previously under
      recognised and untreatable disease into a condition recognised by
      respiratory physicians, with international clinical guidelines, patient
      registries, clinical trials, specific treatments and a UK specialist
      clinical service.
    "
"
    Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are valuable analgesics,
      but cause dyspepsia, ulcers and hospitalisation (UK: 3,500pa, USA:
      100,000pa) for complications that can lead to death (UK: 400-1,000pa, USA:
      16,500pa). Acid inhibition by proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), the only
      widely accepted preventative strategy, was proposed and systematically
      proved by studies from Nottingham. NICE now recommends PPIs for all
      patients using NSAIDs and PPIs are central to all major international
      guidelines. PPI co-prescription has increased worldwide (from 27.6% in
      2008 to 44.1% in 2012, in the UK); and reduces the risk of hospitalisation
      for gastrointestinal bleeding by 54% and symptomatic ulcer by 63%, thereby
      preventing up to 540 deaths per annum in the UK.
    "
"
    The University of Nottingham spin out company Scancell Holdings plc is
      developing novel immunotherapies for the treatment of cancer. By licensing
      products (&#163;6million) and listing and raising money (&#163;4million) on the
      stock exchange, it has provided an excellent return for investors. In
      2012, in response to good clinical trial results, Scancell's shares showed
      the greatest percentage increase (10fold) on London's AIM stock exchange,
      reaching a market capitalisation of &#163;98million. This has encouraged
      further investment (&#163;6.5million) which is in line with the Government's
      plan to promote the Biotechnology Industry. As the products progress to
      market it will save further lives and continue to increase in value
      providing further profit for investors.
    "
"
    The use of implantable polymeric devices is limited by infection.
      University of Nottingham research led to patented technology for
      hydrocephalus shunts that provides biomaterials with long-acting
      antimicrobial action. Almost 70% of shunts used annually in England now
      comprise our [text removed for publication] shunt, and UK usage has grown
      by 22% since 2008. The technology has reduced infection rates from 8.75%
      (2008) to 3.6% (2013), and prevents around 370 brain infections and 38
      deaths in England each year. This is saving NHS England an estimated
      &#163;18.4m in treatment costs each year, and generating company revenue.
      Furthermore, our [text removed for publication] EVD catheters for
      temporary relief of intracranial hypertension have reduced the rate of
      brain infections from 7.6% to 0.9%.
    "